README.md, before:

# Islandty

Islandty builds a static web site from a CSV or Google Sheets document input file formatted for [Islandora Workbench](https://github.com/mjordan/islandora_workbench), built on the
[Eleventy](https://www.11ty.dev) platform.

So if you use Islandora Workbench with Islandora,
you can use the same input files to generate a static website.

## Features

- OCFL - All objects are stored as single OCFL objects. Changing files automatically results in a new OCFL version being minted.
- MODS support
- Mirador viewer with embedded hOCR
- Content-model based system that moves files into place and can be used to generate derivatives.
- Uses a [fork of biiif](https://github.com/alxp/biiif) to generate image files, embed hOCR, and support JP2 files.
- [Lunr](https://lunrjs.com)-based search
- Supports both local and remote locations for object files.

![Screenshot of a book in Mirador with metadata and file downloads](/docs/images/demo-book-object.png)

## Requirements

- Node.js (Tested on version 22.x and 23.x.
- VIPS (for JP2 support - see below)

### Installing VIPS for JP2 support

To support generating tiles and thumbnails for JP2 images
(required for the Mirador viewer),
you will need to install VIPS.

You can use Mirador with TIFF files
without VIPS.

#### macOS via homebrew

```shell
brew install vips
```

See the Sharp [installation instructions](https://sharp.pixelplumbing.com/install) for more info.

#### Linux

Most popular distributions include a VIPS devel package.

```shell
apk add --update --no-cache --repository http://dl-3.alpinelinux.org/alpine/edge/community --repository http://dl-3.alpinelinux.org/alpine/edge/main build-base vips-dev
```

## Installation

Clone the islandty repository and change directory into it.

Then, run

```shell
$ npm install
```

to get all the dependencies.

### Docker-based installation

If you're having trouble running node.js locally,
see the instructions for running Islandty inside
a docker container at[ docs/docker.md](docs/docker.md).

## Setup

These instructions use the [Islandora Demo Objects](https://github.com/Islandora-Devops/islandora_demo_objects) content as a working example, but can also work with custom data.

### Create a CSV of objects and their metadata

Islandty requires a CSV data file listing your objects. We say that it must be "formatted as though for Islandora Workbench" and in practice this means:
* it must include an `id` or `node_id` column, and that column must be populated for every row,
* it must include a `title` column, and that column must be populated for every row,
* it should include a `file` column, though values in that column are optional,
* it may include additional columns with values. See section below, "Configure your fields".

If you use Islandora Workbench to export objects from Islandora using the `export_csv` or `get_data_from_view` tasks, you can use that CSV as-is as an input data file. See section below, "Configure your fields".

The `id` column is special and should contain distinct values. If a spreadsheet contains duplicates of an `id` value, undefined behaviour will result.

If a CSV from exported Islandora content has 'node_id' rather than 'id', that column will be used as the id.of 'id'

### Point to your binaries' root folder in `.env`

Your binaries and input data should be in a root folder such that the paths
that point to the files in the metadata CSV
are accurate relative to that root folder. These paths
may be in the `file` column, `thumbnail` column, or whatever
you have configured as file columns in your field configuration.

For Islandora Demo Objects, `git clone` the
Islandora Demo Objects repository outside of the islandty tree.

If you have custom data, also put it outside the islandty tree.

Edit the `.env` file in the islandty project root and set the `inputMediaPath`
to your input data's root folder:

```ini
inputMediaPath=../islandora_demo_objects
```

If using a relative path, it is relative to the Islandty folder.

### Remote media

Islandora Workbench now supports exporting files'URLs rather than downloading them via the ```export_file_url_instead_of_download``` option in the job YAML file.

Islandty will download these files and import them if it finds a URL in a file field column.

### Point to the metadata CSV file in `.env`

Edit the .env file in the islandty project root and set `dataFileName` to
the location of your workbench-esque metadata CSV:

```ini
dataFileName=../islandora_demo_objects/create_islandora_objects.csv
```

The CSV may be within the binaries' root folder, but does not need to be.
If using a relative path, it is relative to the Islandty folder.

### Configure your fields

Islandty comes with field configuration for the Islandora Demo Objects,
but this can be easily configured to display custom metadata fields.

To edit it for your data, edit the file `config/islandtyFieldInfo.json`.
It contains a json array. The key of each item is the raw column name in the CSV.
The value is an array that can contain the following elements:

* `"label"`: a human-readable label for the field. If empty, no label will be displayed.
* `"cardinality"`: either `"1"` or `"-1"` if the field is single or multi-valued, respectively.
* `"type"`: Optional. It may be either
	* `"typed_relation"`: parse the field using Workbench's Typed Relation protocols
 	* `"subject"`: parse the field as though it is a Workbench Taxonomy Term.
	  In your data, a vocabulary may be prepended to the term with a colon
	  (e.g. `field_model:Image`) and Islandty will only display the term (e.g. "Image"). This type option will not work for terms that contain
	  colons. This type option also populates the metadata table with a
	  multi-row header if the field is multi-valued.
  	* `"file"`: Required if intending to use this file in Islandty. By
	  default, it will render a downloadable file link in the metadata table.
	    See also:
	  the `"metadata_display"` option and the `"downloadable"` option.
  	* If empty, fields will be treated as strings.
* `"metadata_display"` Optional, defaults to `true`. If `false` (or if the column is not listed in
this file), then the values will not be displayed in the metadata table.
* `"downloadable"` Optional, defaults to `false`. Render a downloadable file
  link in a "File Downloads" section below the metadata.
The metadata table will be populated in the order that fields appear in this file.

#### Islandora Workbench Field Metadata

If you used the export_csv Islandora Workbench command,
then field data will have been exported at the top of the CSV file.

Islandty uses this data instead if it exists.

This is enabled by setting:

```ini
CSVOverrideFieldInfo=true
```

in your .env file.

### Generate and run the site locally.

Run the site generator with the command `npm start`.

```shell
$ npm start
```

The site will be served at http://localhost:8080/.

## MODS Support

Add a `mods` column to the CSV input data file
to have Islandty include MODS data in the
object's metadata section directly. This lets you avoid
having to extract all of those fields
to CSV columns if your source metadata is in MODS format.
Islandty uses an XSLT to extract metadata for display.

## hOCR support

If Islandty finds a file with extension .hocr
in the same folder as a source image for an
object with content model 'Page' it will
add it to the IIIF manifest generated via biiif.

If you have Tesseract installed locally, you can generate hOCR
for all image files in a folder with the following bash script:

```bash
# Create a set of hOCR files from a directory of JP2s.
for filename in *.jp2 ; do
  extension="${filename##*.}"
  basename="${filename%.$extension}"
  tesseract -c tessedit_create_hocr=1 -c hocr_font_info=0 "$filename" "$basename"
	done
```

## Known Issues/Troubleshooting

- `1 high severity vulnerability`: there is a bug in the npm html-minifier package, which minifies code during production runs.
- `Deprecation Warning` related to `sass`: The current theme includes a sass library, `gorko`, that is no longer developed. We are working to remove `gorko`.
- `Unable to call islandtyHelpers`:  Eleventy 3.0. is not yet compatible with Node v.23, which is installed by default on a mac when you update homebrew. Downgrade Node to version 22.


## Maintainers

- Alexander O'Neill (https://github.com/alxp)
- Rosie Le Faive (https://github.com/rosiel)

## Acknowledgements

The codebase, especially the styling, is originally based on the course
[Learn Eleventy from Scratch](https://learneleventyfromscratch.com) by [Andy Bell](https://piccalil.li).

Extensive credit and gratitude to the Islandora and Islandora Workbench developers for their hard work maintaining the ecosystem
that Islandty has built on and become a part of.

## Copyright and License

Copyright (c) 2024-2025 by Alexander O'Neill and Rosemary Le Faive.

All rights reserved except those permitted by the license and applicable laws.

Commit message:

Move .env to sample.env, update README.

README.md, after:

# Islandty

Islandty builds a static web site from a CSV or Google Sheets document input file formatted for [Islandora Workbench](https://github.com/mjordan/islandora_workbench), built on the
[Eleventy](https://www.11ty.dev) platform.

So if you use Islandora Workbench with Islandora,
you can use the same input files to generate a static website.

## Features

- OCFL - All objects are stored as single OCFL objects. Changing files automatically results in a new OCFL version being minted.
- Mirador viewer with embedded hOCR
- Content-model based system that moves files into place and can be used to generate derivatives.
- Uses a [fork of biiif](https://github.com/alxp/biiif) to generate image files, embed hOCR, and support JP2 files.
- [Lunr](https://lunrjs.com)-based search
- Supports both local and remote locations for object files.

![Screenshot of a book in Mirador with metadata and file downloads](/docs/images/demo-book-object.png)

## Requirements

- Node.js (Tested on version 22.x and 23.x.
- VIPS (for JP2 support - see below)

### Installing VIPS for JP2 support

To support generating tiles and thumbnails for JP2 images
(required for the Mirador viewer),
you will need to install VIPS.

You can use Mirador with TIFF files
without VIPS.

#### macOS via homebrew

```shell
brew install vips
```

See the Sharp [installation instructions](https://sharp.pixelplumbing.com/install) for more info.

#### Linux

Most popular distributions include a VIPS devel package.

```shell
apk add --update --no-cache --repository http://dl-3.alpinelinux.org/alpine/edge/community --repository http://dl-3.alpinelinux.org/alpine/edge/main build-base vips-dev
```

## Installation

Clone the islandty repository and change directory into it.

Then, run

```shell
$ npm install
```

to get all the dependencies.

### Docker-based installation

If you're having trouble running node.js locally,
see the instructions for running Islandty inside
a docker container at[ docs/docker.md](docs/docker.md).

## Setup

These instructions use the [Islandora Demo Objects](https://github.com/Islandora-Devops/islandora_demo_objects) content as a working example, but can also work with custom data.

### Create a CSV of objects and their metadata

Islandty requires a CSV data file listing your objects. We say that it must be "formatted as though for Islandora Workbench" and in practice this means:
* it must include an `id` or `node_id` column, and that column must be populated for every row,
* it must include a `title` column, and that column must be populated for every row,
* it should include a `file` column, though values in that column are optional,
* it may include additional columns with values. See section below, "Configure your fields".

If you use Islandora Workbench to export objects from Islandora using the `export_csv` or `get_data_from_view` tasks, you can use that CSV as-is as an input data file. See section below, "Configure your fields".

The `id` column is special and should contain distinct values. If a spreadsheet contains duplicates of an `id` value, undefined behaviour will result.

If a CSV from exported Islandora content has 'node_id' rather than 'id', that column will be used as the id.of 'id'

### Create a .env file

You can copy sample.env to .env and change the value of dataFIleName to your CSV or Google Sheets share URL.

### Point to your binaries' root folder in `.env`

Your binaries and input data should be in a root folder such that the paths
that point to the files in the metadata CSV
are accurate relative to that root folder. These paths
may be in the `file` column, `thumbnail` column, or whatever
you have configured as file columns in your field configuration.

For Islandora Demo Objects, `git clone` the
Islandora Demo Objects repository outside of the islandty tree.

If you have custom data, also put it outside the islandty tree.

Edit the `.env` file in the islandty project root and set the `inputMediaPath`
to your input data's root folder:

```ini
inputMediaPath=../islandora_demo_objects
```

If using a relative path, it is relative to the Islandty folder.

### Remote media

Islandora Workbench now supports exporting files'URLs rather than downloading them via the ```export_file_url_instead_of_download``` option in the job YAML file.

Islandty will download these files and import them if it finds a URL in a file field column.

### Point to the metadata CSV file in `.env`

Edit the .env file in the islandty project root and set `dataFileName` to
the location of your workbench-esque metadata CSV:

```ini
dataFileName=../islandora_demo_objects/create_islandora_objects.csv
```

The CSV may be within the binaries' root folder, but does not need to be.
If using a relative path, it is relative to the Islandty folder.

### Configure your fields

Islandty comes with field configuration for the Islandora Demo Objects,
but this can be easily configured to display custom metadata fields.

To edit it for your data, edit the file `config/islandtyFieldInfo.json`.
It contains a json array. The key of each item is the raw column name in the CSV.
The value is an array that can contain the following elements:

* `"label"`: a human-readable label for the field. If empty, no label will be displayed.
* `"cardinality"`: either `"1"` or `"-1"` if the field is single or multi-valued, respectively.
* `"type"`: Optional. It may be either
	* `"typed_relation"`: parse the field using Workbench's Typed Relation protocols
 	* `"subject"`: parse the field as though it is a Workbench Taxonomy Term.
	  In your data, a vocabulary may be prepended to the term with a colon
	  (e.g. `field_model:Image`) and Islandty will only display the term (e.g. "Image"). This type option will not work for terms that contain
	  colons. This type option also populates the metadata table with a
	  multi-row header if the field is multi-valued.
  	* `"file"`: Required if intending to use this file in Islandty. By
	  default, it will render a downloadable file link in the metadata table.
	    See also:
	  the `"metadata_display"` option and the `"downloadable"` option.
  	* If empty, fields will be treated as strings.
* `"metadata_display"` Optional, defaults to `true`. If `false` (or if the column is not listed in
this file), then the values will not be displayed in the metadata table.
* `"downloadable"` Optional, defaults to `false`. Render a downloadable file
  link in a "File Downloads" section below the metadata.
The metadata table will be populated in the order that fields appear in this file.

#### Islandora Workbench Field Metadata

If you used the export_csv Islandora Workbench command,
then field data will have been exported at the top of the CSV file.

Islandty uses this data instead if it exists.

This is enabled by setting:

```ini
CSVOverrideFieldInfo=true
```

in your .env file.

### Generate and run the site locally.

Run the site generator with the command `npm start`.

```shell
$ npm start
```

The site will be served at http://localhost:8080/.

## MODS Support

Add a `mods` column to the CSV input data file
to have Islandty include MODS data in the
object's metadata section directly. This lets you avoid
having to extract all of those fields
to CSV columns if your source metadata is in MODS format.
Islandty uses an XSLT to extract metadata for display.

## hOCR support

If Islandty finds a file with extension .hocr
in the same folder as a source image for an
object with content model 'Page' it will
add it to the IIIF manifest generated via biiif.

If you have Tesseract installed locally, you can generate hOCR
for all image files in a folder with the following bash script:

```bash
# Create a set of hOCR files from a directory of JP2s.
for filename in *.jp2 ; do
  extension="${filename##*.}"
  basename="${filename%.$extension}"
  tesseract -c tessedit_create_hocr=1 -c hocr_font_info=0 "$filename" "$basename"
	done
```

## Known Issues/Troubleshooting

- `1 high severity vulnerability`: there is a bug in the npm html-minifier package, which minifies code during production runs.
- `Deprecation Warning` related to `sass`: The current theme includes a sass library, `gorko`, that is no longer developed. We are working to remove `gorko`.
- `Unable to call islandtyHelpers`:  Eleventy 3.0. is not yet compatible with Node v.23, which is installed by default on a mac when you update homebrew. Downgrade Node to version 22.


## Maintainers

- Alexander O'Neill (https://github.com/alxp)
- Rosie Le Faive (https://github.com/rosiel)

## Acknowledgements

The codebase, especially the styling, is originally based on the course
[Learn Eleventy from Scratch](https://learneleventyfromscratch.com) by [Andy Bell](https://piccalil.li).

Extensive credit and gratitude to the Islandora and Islandora Workbench developers for their hard work maintaining the ecosystem
that Islandty has built on and become a part of.

## Copyright and License

Copyright (c) 2024-2025 by Alexander O'Neill and Rosemary Le Faive.

All rights reserved except those permitted by the license and applicable laws.
